---
published: true
title: IDS and GOO
layout: post
---
In the UK the news yesterday and today has been the story of a man, called Iain Duncan Smith, resigning his position in the government. It seems to me that behind this somewhat trivial bit of news lies something far more important (for some reason this chap is referred to by his initials "IDS" probably something to with his double barrelled last name ... anyway that is the way I will refer to him in the rest of the post). IDS used to be leader of his party "The British Conservative Party" and has been the The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions since 2010 and has been at the centre of attempts to reform the UK's benefit system. 

Now, whatever good intentions he might have had, things have not gone brilliantly well. Essentially setting off on a poor redesign in the first place is probably been the biggest issue but that will be the subject of a latter blog. What matters here is that he has been constantly stymied by the UK Treasury. Now you might think that they had been doing this because he and his team were making a meal out of reforms but in actually fact it is that the UK Treasury led by George (Gideon Oliver) Osborne [GOO] who has a philosophy of cutting expenditure regardless of pretty much anything else. It is this that I essentially want to highlight.

The Conservative Party has been in power in the UK since 2010. What has characterised their reign has been a somewhat lazy lack lustre set of policies partly caused by having to spend time defending itself from various forces that would break up the UK (SNP+UKIP) but more essentially they simply have had very few ideas of what to do. They have spent their time rather like someone who sits at home and does nothing because otherwise it will involve spending a bit of cash. Now that is a policy that may make sense if you cannot think of anything better to do but someone more dynamic would try to do things to improve their lot rather than sit on their small pot of gold. Essentially GOO's policy is don't do anything but try to save some money. This all works in a kind of "at least we are still alive" kind of way but hardly moves things forward. 

What I hope to do in future blogs is to show how this sort of 'lazy fair' (sic) policy might mean you don't do very badly but it usually means you don't do very well. There are many things the UK, and other governments, could do that would both save them money as well as helping their citizens greatly but they simply don't have the ideas or the will to carry them out. 
